So now that we have covered the very
basics of testing a component,
the last thing that I want
to leave you with is how
do you handle a component
that has a dependency.
Thankfully, Angular works on
a concept of dependency injection.
And so hopefully at this point,
this is nothing new.
But I have a component that has
a dependency that calls a service,
that calls a server that mutates
a database or something.
You typically do not want to use real
services in your component tests.
It's really, really important
that when you're writing a test,
you are only testing
the thing that is under test.
So meaning if I am testing this
app component and I look at this,
I see that I also have the authService
that's being injected in.
And right now it's currently
not doing anything and
our tests are not forcing this
authService to do anything,
but let's say we were testing logout and
it actually hit a real database.
Well, that would be bad.
And more importantly is that if it
returned some kind of a result,
we won't want to test the correctness of
that result inside of the component test.
When we look at a method like this,
the question is, what does logout do?
Well, when you call logout,
it calls logout on the authService.
That's what you need to be able to test.
You do not need to be able to test.
For instance the temptation might be
that if I click on the authService,
here you'll notice that
when somebody calls logout
that it sets a property locally
on this class to false.
And so we're keeping track of within
the stream is this authenticated?
Well, it would be a misstep that
when we call this within our app
components spec to test
the properties on the authService,
like we expect that authService
dot is authenticated to be false.
The reason being is because that test or
that assertion belongs
in the authService test.
And so
what we need is the ability to segment and
isolate our component and
provide something that looks and
feels like a real dependency,
but in fact, is not.
And so this is where we can
leverage the dependency
injection system to use mocks,
and by extension, spies.
So what I want to do is I want
to override the authService and
use something else in its place.
So not too hard,
the first thing that I recommend
when starting out on
this is this right here.
I would just simply create a mock object.
So in this case,
we're gonna call it mockAuthService.
And what I'm gonna do here is I
know we are calling it logout and
I'm going to give it a property of noop or
no op.
And I'll define this up here.
And this is just something that I've
picked up from doing just this over and
over and over is a lot of times
I will create an empty function.
It's called noop or no operation.
It doesn't do anything.
I just need an empty function
to exist in its place.
So now, what I can do is take
this mockAuthService and
I can use this in place
of the real service.
So what I need to do as
well is create a reference
to the authService, and then within the,
TestBed configuration, I am going to
update this to have a providers array,
and I'm going to add in a new object.
And so from here,
we're going to provide AuthService and
instead of using the AuthService
we're going to go useValue.
And we're going to go mockAuthService.
So what we're saying is I wanna provide
the AuthService, but in its place,
I want to use value.
You can use a couple different
things here, use class,
I think you can even use object.
There's a few ways to do this, but
typically I just will use an object and
therefore, I can use value.
So now we have essentially overridden
the AuthService with our mockAuthService.
Now what I wanna do is I want
to get a reference to this.
So service = TestBed.inject(AuthService).
The particular semantics
around this is a little funny
to me because I feel like you would be
injecting something into the TestBed.
But what this does is actually
return whatever instance of
the AuthService that it has.
Which, in this case,
will be our mockAutService.
So semantics or the API, the way that they
define that seems a little funny to me.
But, nonetheless, it is what it is.
And so from here,
we are going to write one more test to
illustrate how to take our mock service,
and then we're going to spy on it.
So from here, it should properly
delegate logout responsibility.
And so when we do this,
what we want is not to test
that we were even logged out,
we just want to test or
verify that the component
itself has properly delegated.
So we're going to use spyOn and
this is a created Jasmine spy.
And we're gonna spy on the service and
we're going to specifically
spy on the logout method.
And from here, we're going to go and.
And you'll notice you have
a number of options here callFake,
callThrough, returnValue,
there's a lot of things we can do here.
In this case,
I am just going to callThrough.
There we go.
And so you can create a spy, and
if you need or if the component or
whatever you're testing needs for
this to complete, or
there's some kind of expected flow and
you don't allow the spy to callThrough.
Once it hits this, it will stop.
And so by doing spyOn and
callThrough is it spies on that method but
then it allows it to execute normally.
And then from here, so
real quick, Arrange.
Let's go ahead and act.
So what we wanna do is we
wanna call component.logout,
and then we're going to assert.
So from here,
we would expect that services or
service rather logout.
What do we expect?
Well, that it should have been called,
all right?
We'll save this and
let's hop into our test here and
let's see what else happened.
Apparently, it's looking for
something and it doesn't exist.
So the reason why I allowed this
to happen is because I wanted
to highlight what a typical kind
of workflow is, at least for me.
You will spend probably 80% of your
time satisfying dependencies
within an application.
And so in this case,
it's looking for, Pipe.
Well, pipe on what?
Well, let's go into our code and
let's check this out.
So if we go into our app component.
That's right.
I thought we were only using
authService.logout, but
we're also referencing isAuthenticated,
which is an observable string.
So I've mocked out the authService, but I
haven't done it enough, I missed a piece.
And so this is where for
me typically what I'll do is I'll mock
out the bare minimum and then I'll
just add in the pieces that I need.
So you only have to mock out the pieces
that your component under test is using.
So in this case, if I go back to my spec,
I need to update my mockAuthService
to have an isAuthenticated.
We spelled that right.
Property, that is going to
have an observable string.
Well, how you can handle that
is by using the of operator
from RxJS, and
I'm just going to send in true.
We'll save this.
And let's go back into our code.
And you can see here
that it did indeed pass.
So just to review,
we have created an object that represents
just the pieces of the AuthService that
we're using inside of our app component.
This is what we happen to be testing.
And so we have a logout property,
that's a noop.
We have isAuthenticated, which is
just an observable string of true.
And then from here,
we are overriding the provider by saying
provide : AuthService,
UseValue : mockAuthService.
And then using TestBed.inject, we're able
to get a reference to the AuthService,
which in this case is actually
the underlying is the mockAuthService,
that's the actual instance itself.
And then from here, we are calling spyOn
and we're spying on the logout service.
And when we call component.logout,
what we want to assert is
that we have called or
that service.logout has been called.
And so this is really important
that when you're testing
a method that calls another method,
using spies,
that it's really,
really easy to verify the delegation.
So if I were going to even test a,
let's say, a HTTP service.
So I'll pull this up real quick,
just as a parting thought exercise,
and if we look in shared and
I go to my courses.service.
The question here is,
how would we test this?
Well, if I called createCourse,
two things are happening.
It's calling the notificationService and
it's calling http.post.
And so what I would do is I'd verify that
notificationService.notify was called.
And in this case, I could verify that
http.post was called with a mock course.
And so
I'm not validating any of the results, but
what I am doing is using spies, I am
validating that it was properly delegated.
And so this is how you can use or
test a component with dependencies.
And then from there,
spy on that mocked out dependency to
make sure that it has done
exactly what it advertised to do,
that delegation was handled properly.